(upbeat music)
Take a look at this price input here
and we're just inputting cents
and that's often confusing to editors.
So what would be nice is as we type the data here,
it would display the actual price to the user
or to the, sorry, the editor, not the end user.
That's gonna happen on the front end
and then they would be able to say,
okay, I'm typing this correctly.
And this is the perfect use case for custom input components
in Gatsby so even though this thing looks like Gatsby CMS,
it's just a react based CMS called sanity studio
and we're actually hosting it ourselves.
So you will be able to deploy it to sanity
and host it on sanity.io
but we have full control over the code that runs here.
Our hands are not tied, so that's pretty cool.
So actually one more thing, this is kind of unrelated,
but I thought this would be kind of a cool challenge
to somebody is if you want to have a little bit more work
in sanity studio, I think it would be really cool is
if you could put the little vegetarian symbol
next to the pizza name, if all of the toppings of a pizza
are vegetarian, so you'd have to go into the preview,
select all the toppings and loop over them
and make sure all of them are.
That'd be kind of a cool little challenge.
It's not part of this course, but if you're looking for
trying to do something off on your own
I suggest that you try that.
All right, let's go into, we're still in sanity
and we are going to, I think, we'll create a new folder.
You might have a folder here called components.
If you do not have a folder called components like me
create a folder called components and this is the folder
where we're going to put all of our custom input components
for sanity studio.
Then inside of that, we'll make a PriceInput,
capital P capital I dot js
and we will import react from react
and then we'll make our export default function, PriceInput
and then just return from that.
Let's just return a div and a paragraph.
Maybe let's do an h2, that says the price.
I like to just do a very basic component
and then get it showing up in here
and then I'll come back and we'll actually hook up
all of our details so.
Next thing we need to do is go into our schema,
go into pizza.js and we wanna import that price component
up at the top here.
So import price input from,
I got to go up a level into the components folder
and grab price input.
And then we go to our config of that schema.
And so you say input component
is going to be our price input.
And by doing this, we are overriding the built in component
from sanity and saying, no, no, no,
I'm gonna bring my own component,
I'll handle the inputting in the saving of data ourselves
and sanity will give us a bunch of helpers for that.
Looks like totally goofed it up.
So now when I go to edit one of them it just says the price.
Looks like I accidentally replaced the entire thing
with its own input.
So you could replace the entire form
and that's not what we wanna do.
I accidentally put that on the entire schema.
We wanna put that on the price input.
So remove that and we'll go down to where it says price
there we go.
To do I even added it to do good.
Now I bet when this re-bundles we see the price, right?
So now it's up to us to render out the input
and everything else that controls
how this one field is done.
So I'll make this smaller again, close up my sidebar.
I would go to our price input
and let's start to scaffold out the markup that we need.
So first, what we want to do is to take the title
of this input type and we can actually grab that
by destructuring the props of the price input.
So when sanity renders out this component for us,
it will pass us a bunch of props.
I can show you that by if we inspect it
and then go to a react dev tools,
you'll see here that there are a bunch of different props
that get passed.
I'm sorry, it's so small let me try to zoom in there.
Says description, price of pizza in cents, input component,
JSON type, name, preview, type.
So all of the data that sanity used to have
to render out the component,
they're actually giving it to you via props.
So what we can do is we can restructure those values
that we need.
We need to restructure the type, the value,
the on change handler and the input component.
And that's a RAF I'll show you how to do that
in just a second.
Okay, then we can go into here and say type.title
and you see that there's price, that's good.
So we don't wanna hard code the word price,
because this input might be used for multiple fields
and if we can make it dynamic by doing this,
that's all better.
Especially like also sometimes I do this stuff for clients
and then they'll be all like hard code something like price
and then they'll come around and be like,
hey, I was using that new component for like another,
another input field
and I don't know where to change this one word.
I can't find it and they go, oh, I hard-coded that.
Sorry about that.(laughs)
Then what we wanna do is give ourselves a paragraph
and we'll say type.description,
just in case there is a description.
And I believe we did put a description on it.
There we go, price of pizza in cents.
One kind of thing about making your own components
is the styling does not perfectly match
that of sanity studio.
And the reasoning behind that is because
sanity studio adds a bunch of classes to it.
There are docs on how to do that
but from how I've seen it,
it's more trouble than it's worth to get into it.
I've talked to them and they said, they're gonna make that
a bit easier in the future.
So that might have changed as well.
Then give yourself as an input, a type of,
actually I was gonna just hard code number,
but I believe we can say, well, I don't know
let's look at a react dev tools component,
price input, type.name or price,
I think type.name.
So let's do it. Type.name, okay?
Then we also want the value to be the value
that would be structured here.
You see that we've already saved this one, so 2256.
And then anytime in react that you put a value
into an input, you must also supply an on change handler.
And here's where we need a little bit of
sanity special sauce.
So far this is just a plain react component
but in order for this react component to work well
with sanity studio,
we need to import a little helper function from sanity.
So we'll go up here and we'll say import
it's called PatchEvent, capital P capital E,
and then we also want these set and unset methods from,
and then here, this is gonna be a little long part colon
at sanity forward slash form dash builder
forward slash patch event.
And I didn't find that out.
I just grabbed it from their example.
So likely you'd just be copying it from this
or from one of their examples.
Then we can do here is go down to our on change handler.
And this is where we start to do
a little bit of special sauce.
So we need to go up here and import a couple of things.
We need this thing called PatchEvent,
and we also need to methods called set and unset.
And we are gonna import that from,
now this is the sanity special web pack import.
So we have to type part colon at sanity, forward slash
form dash builder forward slash patch dash event.
So it's a little bit long,
but I just copied that from one of their examples,
you can go into the docs and find that.
Then what we'll do is we'll make it a little function here
called createPatchFrom(value)
and then what we'll do is
we'll run this patch event function dot from,
and then we check if the value is nothing,
then we will unset it.
And then if the value is something, then we will set it.
And that's just a long way of saying
these two functions here set and unset
allow us to obviously set values or remove them completely
if that value is empty.
Then we need to patch that through to sanity special studio.
So this is the, like, I think the only part
where it gets a little bit custom
and you only need to do this if you wanna create
your own custom input.
So we'll say if the value is equal to nothing,
then question mark we will unset that, we'll delete it.
Otherwise we will set the value that comes in
and we have passed the value.
So what's gonna happen is
we're gonna take whatever the user has typed
into this input box.
We're gonna pass it to this create patch from
it's gonna be like 500 or something like that.
And then we're just gonna quickly check
if that value is nothing, then we're gonna unset it.
And then if it is something we are going to set it.
And the last thing we need to do is just wrap it in number
and the reason we do that is because
even if you have an input type of number,
it still comes in as a string.
So we wanna coerce it into a true number in JavaScript.
Okay, so then what we do as we take our event on change
of this react component, and we run our create patch from,
we pass it, the event.target, which is the input itself,
and then the value in there.
Whoo! All right!
So real quick on change, take the value, pass it to sanity
and then sanity is going to patch it to itself
for things like live updating in live preview.
So it uses its own little internal API and set or unset it.
So if we go down to our actual input now, there we go.
I'm not able to type into it.
And I believe, oh, that's because we forgot one more thing
and that is a ref to the actual input component.
So I'll say ref is equal to input component
and what this does is it tells sanity,
this is the actual input
where the changing of the value happens
and the rest of this stuff is just UI for the component.
This does nothing to do with the actual data
that is saved or unsaved.
So now if I give that a save,
I bet we'll be able to at least get it back
to where we had it before this video started.
So change it to $25
not working for me.
Let me take a quick look at my answer here.
There is an accessibility thing.
I'm not sure if that has anything to do with
our problem here, but let's put it in.
So we need to add a focus state to our price input,
so that if sanity ever needs to focus that input, it can.
So we'll take our price input
and we'll set the focus property of it.
And we'll say that is a function that says this dot
underscore input element.focus.
So whenever sanity needs to focus this method,
essentially all we're doing here is we're exposing
a focus method for sanity to run.
I don't believe that it will be our issue though.
Let's take a look.
Nope, that was not our issue.
There's little arrows. Don't do anything.
All right, so let's debug this real quick.
We've got our type, our value are on change.
One question I have here is
if we were to inspect this price input in our dev tools here
see 2256, now if I were to change that,
it's like the on change handler is not being called.
So what I'll do is I'll go up here.
I'll say console.log. Does it work?
Try to type in here.
Okay, so we know that this is getting called
and I wonder if it's because we didn't return
this patch event from.
Let's try that. That was not it.
You see that this on change is gray.
We didn't actually use it.
So (laughs) it was a little bit more to this.
So if we wrapped this in on change,
that will finally fix it.
Probably not though. Hey, there we go.
All right, you see that
as I'm typing the data as now updating, which is great.
So what I wanna do now is to stick the formatted version
of this price up here so that as people type in it,
they can see a live version of that.
So first thing we'll do
is we'll, let's just stick the in here directly, there we go
and then as I type this, you see as being mirrored here,
but now I wanna go ahead and format that entire thing.
So we'll go up here and we'll make a function
to format the money.
So say const format money is equal to Intl.NumberFormat
and this is just, Intl.NumberFormat
is built into the browser
and it's a great way to format money
based on the locale of the user.
So in my case, I'm in Canada.
So I'm gonna say en-ca you can put your own locale in there
for whatever language and money formatting you're using.
And then the second option is
a couple options for how to format that number.
So we'll say style is currency and the currency is CAD
or USD or whatever currency you're working on there.
And then the,
so what that does is this returns a formatter
and then in the formatter there's a method called .format,
and I've never needed the actual formatter myself
so I almost always just return the format function directly
into a new variable called format money.
And what we should be able to do
is wrap this value in our format money function.
And it will show us the value.
Here we go, $2 trillion. So let's bring that back to 2534.
So you see that I'm using cents here,
but it assume it's using dollars.
So what we'll need to do is take the value
and divide it by 100.
So it brings it back down there we go.
And now there's one more problem is
when I completely remove it, it says, NaN.
So what we can do here is we can say,
if there is a value question mark, then format the money,
otherwise do nothing.
And that should only return something if there is a value.
See here you could also probably use the add in there,
but I like this method right now.
So that's what I'm going to use there.
I believe that is it for this custom input.
Just a pretty simple one, but nice, quick and easy way
to visualize what the cents are in actual dollar value.
And we're gonna be doing that function
on the front end as well.